CV.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: CV
permalink: /cv/
---

Updated on 19 October 2020.

# Can AKNESİL
Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan, SE-100 44 STOCKHOLM  
<aknesil@kth.se>   
[www.canaknesil.com](https://www.canaknesil.com)  

## EDUCATION

**KTH Royal Institute of Technology** *2018 – 2020*  
**School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science**, STOCKHOLM  
**Master of Science in Embedded Systems (Platform track)**

**Koç University** *2013 – 2018*  
**College of Engineering**, ISTANBUL  
**Bachelor of Science in Electrical & Electronics Engineering**  
**Double Major in Computer Engineering**  
(25% Scholarship)  
GPA: 3.44 / 4  
Vehbi Koç Scholar in 2014 and 2016

**Notre Dame de Sion** French High School *2008 – 2013*  
ISTANBUL 

## EXPERIENCE

### Publications & Theses

[Can Aknesil. "An FPGA Implementation of Arbiter PUF with 4x4 Switch
Blocks". Master's Thesis, KTH (Royal Institute of Technology),
Stockholm, Sweden. 2020.](../docs/An_FPGA_Implementation_of_Arbiter_PUF_with_4x4_Switch_Blocks.pdf)

[Can Aknesil and Didem Unat. "MAM: A Memory Allocation Manager for
GPUs". 5. Ulusal Yüksek Başarımlı Hesaplama Konferansı, Istanbul, Turkey. September,
2017.](../docs/MAM_A_Memory_Allocation_Manager_for_GPUs.pdf)

### Professional Experience

**Employment** *June 2020 – Present*  
[KTH (Royal Institute of Technology)](https://www.kth.se/en)  
Stockholm, Sweden  
Research Engineer in the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

**Internship R&D** *September 2019 – November 2019*  
[Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson](https://www.ericsson.com/en)  
Stockholm, Sweden  
Intern in High Performance Broadband/Radio Software Department

**Summer Internship R&D** *June 2019 – July 2019*  
[Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson](https://www.ericsson.com/en)  
Stockholm, Sweden  
Summer Intern in High Performance Broadband/Radio Software Department

**Work&Study in College of Engineering** *September 2017 – January 2018*  
[Koç University - College of Engineering](https://eng.ku.edu.tr/en/)  
Istanbul, Turkey  
Undergraduate Teaching Assistant under Deniz Yüret

**Internship** *July 2017 – September 2017*  
[CTech Bilişim Teknolojileri San. ve Tic. A.Ş.](http://www.ctech.com.tr)  
Istanbul, Turkey  
Hardware Department Intern

**Work&Study in IT Department** *February 2017 – June 2017*  
[Koç University - IT](https://it.ku.edu.tr)  
Istanbul, Turkey  
Communication and Infrastructure Services Mentor Student

**OBSS Summer Internship** *July 2016 – August 2016*  
[OBSS](http://obss.com.tr)  
Istanbul, Turkey  
Technology Department Intern

### Teaching Experience

**[CS Bridge Program](http://www.csbridge.org)** *June 20 – 30, 2016*  
Stanford University & Koç University  
Koç University, Istanbul, Turkey  
Section Leader

### Research Lab Membership

**[Koç University - Parallel and Multicore Computing Laboratory](https://parcorelab.ku.edu.tr/)** *September 2016 – March 2018*  
Koç University, Istanbul, Turkey  
Lab Member

## ACADEMIC & PROFESSIONAL SKILLS

### Language

**Turkish:** Native language

**English:** IELTS (Overall: 6.0, Listening: 6.0, Reading: 6.5, Writing: 5.0, Speaking: 5.5), TOEFL IBT (Overall: 88, Listening: 27, Reading: 22, Writing: 22, Speaking: 17)

**French:** DELF B2 Overall: 57.5/100

**Swedish:** Elementry level

### Computer & Electronics Engineering

#### Programming languages and areas at which I have a good experience

- C, C++, Java, Scheme, Lisp, Julia, Matlab, Python
- FPGA design with VHDL, verification with Systemverilog
  (using both Xilinx and Intel (Altera) design tools)
- Cryptanalysis with power side-channel analysis
- Machine Learning (supervised and unsupervised)
- Parallel programming with pthread library, MPI, CUDA, and MicroC/OS
- Embedded real-time platform and software development with Nios II soft-processor and MicroC/OS
- Embedded software development with Linux
- Embedded software development directly on processor in AVR Assembly, MIPS Assembly, and C
- Proficiency in Linux (Bash, kernel, kernel modules, services, device
  tree, driver and application development, shared libraries etc.)
- Compiler and interpreter design with Lex (Lexical Analyzer) and Yacc (Parser)
- Version control with Git and Subversion
- Build automation with GNU Make
- Proficiency in Office Programs
- Electronic circuit simulation with PSpice and LTspice
- Emacs lisp programming (for fun)

#### Other areas I have experimented

- PCB design using KiCad
- Image analysis and computer vision
- Networking
- Mobile application development for IOS (Objective – C) and Android (Java)
- Web development with HTML, JavaScript, CSS, PHP, and Java EE
- Database design with SQL and MongoDB

## PROJECTS
(Most recent to oldest)

- Breaking Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) on FPGA via power side-channel attack combined with deep learning *(KTH Employment, Ongoing)*
- Machine Learning modeling attacks on Physically Unclonable Functions
  (PUFs)
  *(KTH Employment, Ongoing)*
- [FPGA implementation and statistical analysis of Arbiter PUF with 4x4 Switch
  Blocks](https://github.com/canaknesil/4x4-apuf)
  *(MSc. Embedded Systems thesis, under the supervision of Elena Dubrova)*
- Single-Event Upset Detector (SEUD) Experiment in [the Miniature
  Student Satellite (MIST)](https://mistsatellite.space/)
  *(MSc. Embedded Systems final project)*
- Robust Header Compression (RoHC) for Profile 6 (TCP/IP) *(Ericsson internship)*
- Interfacing C++ high-performance radio simulation libraries from
  Julia, using Cxx.jl *(Ericsson summer internship)*
- [CUDA Compilation Support for Snowflake DSL](https://github.com/canaknesil/snowflake-with-cuda) *(Computer Engineering Final Project)*
- [Limon](https://github.com/canaknesil/limon): A simple and powerful general purpose programming language *(Independent)*
- Programable clock generator chip, RF receiver chip, and RF transmitter chip programming via BeagleBone Black *(CTech internship)*
- [FPGA C++ Framework for FIR Filtering Applications](https://github.com/canaknesil/fpga-fir-filter-generator) *(Electrical & Electronics Engineering Final Project)*
- [MAM: A Memory Allocation Manager for GPUs](https://github.com/canaknesil/mam), in C, compatible with C++ and CUDA *([ParCoreLab](https://parcorelab.ku.edu.tr/))*
- HR Job Advert & Application Management Web Application, in Java *(OBSS Summer Internship)*
- [Cannon’s matrix multiplication algorithm, in C, using MPI library](https://github.com/canaknesil/cannons-algorithm-mpi) *(Independent)*
- Unix-style operating system shell, in C, on Linux *(During undergraduate study)*
- Air traffic control simulator, in C++, using pthread.h library *(During undergraduate study)*
- Cache simulator, in C *(During undergraduate study)*
- Sound Transmission via Amplitude Modulation of Light, electronic circuit and simulation on PSpice *(During undergraduate study)*
- Digital clock, on FPGA board using VHDL *(During undergraduate study)*

A subset of my projects that are or are not mentioned here can be found [here](https://github.com/canaknesil).

## AWARDS

- Vehbi Koç Scholar 2014, 2016
- International mathematical competition named "Le Kangourou des mathématiques", 22th among 10627 participants, 2011

## CONFERENCES & WORKSHOPS

- [FPGAworld Conference 2019](http://www.fpgaworld.com/) at STOCKHOLM.
- [FPGAworld Conference 2018](http://www.fpgaworld.com/) at STOCKHOLM.
- [National High Performance Computing Conference](http://www.basarim.org.tr) (Ulusal Yüksek Başarımlı Hesaplama Konferansı) at Yıldız Technical University, ISTANBUL. Presented a workshop paper. *(2017)*

- Training named "Neuroscience for Leadership" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*
- Training named "Idea Production Techniques" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*
- Training named "Communication Mastery" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*
- Training named "Personal Quality" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*
- Training named "Sustainable Motivation" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*
- Training named "Gamification" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*

- Participated to workshop organized by NDS to "Istanbul Technical University Energy Institute Nuclear Researches Division". Observation of "ITU TRIGA Mark-II Training and Research Reactor". *(2012)*

## HOBBIES & ACTIVITIES

- Music: Piano and Oud (A Classical Turkish Musical Instrument)
  - London College of Music Piano Examinations, Grade 5
  - Koç Orchestra, piano and keyboard, during 3 years. Performed 7 concerts
  - Water Clock (band), keyboard, during 1 year. Performed 2 concert

- Sailing
  - Koç University Sailing Team member
  - Have an Amateur Yacht Captain License
  - Participated to optimist courses at Ataköy Marine
  - Participated to sailing education at Istanbul Sailing Club
  - Officially licensed, intermediate level windsurfer registered with the Turkish Sailing Federation.

- Table tennis team member in Notre Dame de Sion (high school)

- Skiing

Commit message:

Unpublished 4x4 PUF paper and Tecosa workshop.

CV.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: CV
permalink: /cv/
---

Updated on 5 December 2020.

# Can AKNESİL
Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan, SE-100 44 STOCKHOLM  
<aknesil@kth.se>   
[www.canaknesil.com](https://www.canaknesil.com)  

## EDUCATION

**KTH Royal Institute of Technology** *2018 – 2020*  
**School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science**, STOCKHOLM  
**Master of Science in Embedded Systems (Platform track)**

**Koç University** *2013 – 2018*  
**College of Engineering**, ISTANBUL  
**Bachelor of Science in Electrical & Electronics Engineering**  
**Double Major in Computer Engineering**  
(25% Scholarship)  
GPA: 3.44 / 4  
Vehbi Koç Scholar in 2014 and 2016

**Notre Dame de Sion** French High School *2008 – 2013*  
ISTANBUL 

## EXPERIENCE

### Publications & Theses

[Can Aknesil and Elena Dubrova. "An FPGA Implementation of 4x4 Arbiter
PUF". Unpublished Research Paper](../docs/An_FPGA_Implementation_of_4x4_Arbiter_PUF.pdf)

[Can Aknesil. "An FPGA Implementation of Arbiter PUF with 4x4 Switch
Blocks". Master's Thesis, KTH (Royal Institute of Technology),
Stockholm, Sweden. 2020.](../docs/An_FPGA_Implementation_of_Arbiter_PUF_with_4x4_Switch_Blocks.pdf)

[Can Aknesil and Didem Unat. "MAM: A Memory Allocation Manager for
GPUs". 5. Ulusal Yüksek Başarımlı Hesaplama Konferansı, Istanbul, Turkey. September,
2017.](../docs/MAM_A_Memory_Allocation_Manager_for_GPUs.pdf)

### Professional Experience

**Employment** *June 2020 – Present*  
[KTH (Royal Institute of Technology)](https://www.kth.se/en)  
Stockholm, Sweden  
Research Engineer in the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

**Internship R&D** *September 2019 – November 2019*  
[Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson](https://www.ericsson.com/en)  
Stockholm, Sweden  
Intern in High Performance Broadband/Radio Software Department

**Summer Internship R&D** *June 2019 – July 2019*  
[Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson](https://www.ericsson.com/en)  
Stockholm, Sweden  
Summer Intern in High Performance Broadband/Radio Software Department

**Work&Study in College of Engineering** *September 2017 – January 2018*  
[Koç University - College of Engineering](https://eng.ku.edu.tr/en/)  
Istanbul, Turkey  
Undergraduate Teaching Assistant under Deniz Yüret

**Internship** *July 2017 – September 2017*  
[CTech Bilişim Teknolojileri San. ve Tic. A.Ş.](http://www.ctech.com.tr)  
Istanbul, Turkey  
Hardware Department Intern

**Work&Study in IT Department** *February 2017 – June 2017*  
[Koç University - IT](https://it.ku.edu.tr)  
Istanbul, Turkey  
Communication and Infrastructure Services Mentor Student

**OBSS Summer Internship** *July 2016 – August 2016*  
[OBSS](http://obss.com.tr)  
Istanbul, Turkey  
Technology Department Intern

### Teaching Experience

**[CS Bridge Program](http://www.csbridge.org)** *June 20 – 30, 2016*  
Stanford University & Koç University  
Koç University, Istanbul, Turkey  
Section Leader

### Research Lab Membership

**[Koç University - Parallel and Multicore Computing Laboratory](https://parcorelab.ku.edu.tr/)** *September 2016 – March 2018*  
Koç University, Istanbul, Turkey  
Lab Member

## ACADEMIC & PROFESSIONAL SKILLS

### Language

**Turkish:** Native language

**English:** IELTS (Overall: 6.0, Listening: 6.0, Reading: 6.5, Writing: 5.0, Speaking: 5.5), TOEFL IBT (Overall: 88, Listening: 27, Reading: 22, Writing: 22, Speaking: 17)

**French:** DELF B2 Overall: 57.5/100

**Swedish:** Elementry level

### Computer & Electronics Engineering

#### Programming languages and areas at which I have a good experience

- C, C++, Java, Scheme, Lisp, Julia, Matlab, Python
- FPGA design with VHDL, verification with Systemverilog
  (using both Xilinx and Intel (Altera) design tools)
- Cryptanalysis with power side-channel analysis
- Machine Learning (supervised and unsupervised)
- Parallel programming with pthread library, MPI, CUDA, and MicroC/OS
- Embedded real-time platform and software development with Nios II soft-processor and MicroC/OS
- Embedded software development with Linux
- Embedded software development directly on processor in AVR Assembly, MIPS Assembly, and C
- Proficiency in Linux (Bash, kernel, kernel modules, services, device
  tree, driver and application development, shared libraries etc.)
- Compiler and interpreter design with Lex (Lexical Analyzer) and Yacc (Parser)
- Version control with Git and Subversion
- Build automation with GNU Make
- Proficiency in Office Programs
- Electronic circuit simulation with PSpice and LTspice
- Emacs lisp programming (for fun)

#### Other areas I have experimented

- PCB design using KiCad
- Image analysis and computer vision
- Networking
- Mobile application development for IOS (Objective – C) and Android (Java)
- Web development with HTML, JavaScript, CSS, PHP, and Java EE
- Database design with SQL and MongoDB

## PROJECTS
(Most recent to oldest)

- Breaking Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) on FPGA via power side-channel attack combined with deep learning *(KTH Employment, Ongoing)*
- Machine Learning modeling attacks on Physically Unclonable Functions
  (PUFs)
  *(KTH Employment, Ongoing)*
- [FPGA implementation and statistical analysis of Arbiter PUF with 4x4 Switch
  Blocks](https://github.com/canaknesil/4x4-apuf)
  *(MSc. Embedded Systems thesis, under the supervision of Elena Dubrova)*
- Single-Event Upset Detector (SEUD) Experiment in [the Miniature
  Student Satellite (MIST)](https://mistsatellite.space/)
  *(MSc. Embedded Systems final project)*
- Robust Header Compression (RoHC) for Profile 6 (TCP/IP) *(Ericsson internship)*
- Interfacing C++ high-performance radio simulation libraries from
  Julia, using Cxx.jl *(Ericsson summer internship)*
- [CUDA Compilation Support for Snowflake DSL](https://github.com/canaknesil/snowflake-with-cuda) *(Computer Engineering Final Project)*
- [Limon](https://github.com/canaknesil/limon): A simple and powerful general purpose programming language *(Independent)*
- Programable clock generator chip, RF receiver chip, and RF transmitter chip programming via BeagleBone Black *(CTech internship)*
- [FPGA C++ Framework for FIR Filtering Applications](https://github.com/canaknesil/fpga-fir-filter-generator) *(Electrical & Electronics Engineering Final Project)*
- [MAM: A Memory Allocation Manager for GPUs](https://github.com/canaknesil/mam), in C, compatible with C++ and CUDA *([ParCoreLab](https://parcorelab.ku.edu.tr/))*
- HR Job Advert & Application Management Web Application, in Java *(OBSS Summer Internship)*
- [Cannon’s matrix multiplication algorithm, in C, using MPI library](https://github.com/canaknesil/cannons-algorithm-mpi) *(Independent)*
- Unix-style operating system shell, in C, on Linux *(During undergraduate study)*
- Air traffic control simulator, in C++, using pthread.h library *(During undergraduate study)*
- Cache simulator, in C *(During undergraduate study)*
- Sound Transmission via Amplitude Modulation of Light, electronic circuit and simulation on PSpice *(During undergraduate study)*
- Digital clock, on FPGA board using VHDL *(During undergraduate study)*

A subset of my projects that are or are not mentioned here can be found [here](https://github.com/canaknesil).

## AWARDS

- Vehbi Koç Scholar 2014, 2016
- International mathematical competition named "Le Kangourou des mathématiques", 22th among 10627 participants, 2011

## CONFERENCES & WORKSHOPS

- [TECoSA Federated Learning
  Workshop](https://www.tecosa.center.kth.se/). *(2020)*
- [FPGAworld Conference 2019](http://www.fpgaworld.com/) at STOCKHOLM.
- [FPGAworld Conference 2018](http://www.fpgaworld.com/) at STOCKHOLM.
- [National High Performance Computing Conference](http://www.basarim.org.tr) (Ulusal Yüksek Başarımlı Hesaplama Konferansı) at Yıldız Technical University, ISTANBUL. Presented a workshop paper. *(2017)*

- Training named "Neuroscience for Leadership" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*
- Training named "Idea Production Techniques" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*
- Training named "Communication Mastery" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*
- Training named "Personal Quality" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*
- Training named "Sustainable Motivation" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*
- Training named "Gamification" at Kariyer.Net *(2017)*

- Participated to workshop organized by NDS to "Istanbul Technical University Energy Institute Nuclear Researches Division". Observation of "ITU TRIGA Mark-II Training and Research Reactor". *(2012)*

## HOBBIES & ACTIVITIES

- Music: Piano and Oud (A Classical Turkish Musical Instrument)
  - London College of Music Piano Examinations, Grade 5
  - Koç Orchestra, piano and keyboard, during 3 years. Performed 7 concerts
  - Water Clock (band), keyboard, during 1 year. Performed 2 concert

- Sailing
  - Koç University Sailing Team member
  - Have an Amateur Yacht Captain License
  - Participated to optimist courses at Ataköy Marine
  - Participated to sailing education at Istanbul Sailing Club
  - Officially licensed, intermediate level windsurfer registered with the Turkish Sailing Federation.

- Table tennis team member in Notre Dame de Sion (high school)

- Skiing
